---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E1: UI Basics Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2024-01-30
published: true
labels:
  - MIS
  - WODs
  - E1
    
---

I completed BroswerHistory1, 2, and 3 WODs in 12 minutes, 6 minutes, and 7 minutes respectively. I used Zoom to record my WODs and used the WOD timer available on the ITM 352 website. 

When I first started the BrowserHistory1 WOD, I had no idea where to start and how much detail for the narration would be sufficient. I started by attempting to do as much of the WOD as I could on my own before watching the screencast first and timed myself using Google timer. I did not record myself for the first time since I kept going back and forth between the steps in the instructions and the readings on the website. After about 20 minutes, I stopped to watch the screencast and took notes on the parts that I kept getting stuck on. The part that I struggled to remember was the code for creating the links to each of the four internal sections. I re-recorded 4 times until I was able to get my WOD under 15 minutes. For this WOD, I learned about anchoring using ID attributes and inserting images in HTML. Going through the entire process without looking at my notes multiple times helped me remember the code better. 

For BrowserHistory2 WOD, I only re-recorded one time and was able to do it in Rx time. The first time I was able to complete it in under 10 minutes, but I wanted to make sure that I understood the coding process. I felt that this was the easiest WOD for me since there wasn’t as much code to remember. This WOD taught me how to link Google fonts to a CSS stylesheet and use the float CSS property to make images in line with the text. 

By the time I got to the BrowserHistory3 WOD, I was comfortable navigating between the different tabs on my computer which allowed me to cut down on my time and cut down the amount of awkward pauses. I recorded my BrowserHistory3 WOD, a total of 3 times, which took me 15 minutes, 10 minutes, and 7 minutes respectively. The part that I struggled with the most was making the navigation bar and remembering how to delete the margins and padding from the list. I learned how to separate text into columns/sections and how to add padding around an element.

Overall, my advice would be to try the WOD before looking at the screencast and without recording yourself. I think practicing all the way through without filming takes the pressure off and helps you focus on the code itself and not the narration. I also found splitting my screen so that my browser with the instructions and web page was open on one half of my screen and VS Code was open on the other helped me cut down on my time and made narration smoother. Finally, I found it helpful to review the parts of the code that I had trouble with before deleting my file and restarting.

