---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E4: Progress in Programming Report"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2024-04-11
published: true
labels:
  - MIS
  - E4
---

## My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways:
   
I have a better understanding of certain coding concepts such as loops, functions, objects, arrays, and HTML forms. I learned keyboard shortcuts in VS Code and I have also learned how to use ChatGPT to help me troubleshoot and get me started on a task that I don’t know where to begin. I also have a better understanding of how dynamic web pages work and how the server and browser interact to display a website. 

## I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills:

  I need to work on reading the manual and understanding when and where in my code to implement certain functions to get the desired result. The most challenging part of Assignment 1 for me was my IR. I had a difficult time figuring out where to put the new function, for example, if it goes in store.js or server.js, and how to name some of my variables. 
  
## I have learned a lot from doing WODs and I can do them without copying the screencast:

  I have learned a lot from the WODs and although I used to rely heavily on the screencast in the beginning, I have become more comfortable programming. Recording the WODs and narrating the steps helped me memorize what each component does and how to apply them in different scenarios. I struggled the most with Store1, but it definitely helped me with Assignment 1.
  
## The labs have helped me learn and I am able to complete them with confidence:

I have honestly been having trouble following along with the labs in class at times but watching the recorded lectures has helped me answer the questions and better understand the concepts that we reviewed that day. Although I try to check the readings and use ChatGPT to finish them on my own, I definitely would not be able to complete them without working with my classmates. 
   
## I learned a lot from my experience doing Assignment 1 and feel ready to work on Assignment 2:

 I agree that I have learned a lot from my experience doing Assignment 1. I spent approximately 4 hours per day working on this project and was successfully able to incorporate the concepts we learned from the labs and the WODs to complete it. I feel more prepared to work on Assignment 2 now that the first one is finished.

## I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways:

  A few ways the class can be improved is by giving students a little bit of time at the beginning of class to work on their assignments together or ask each other questions. I think it may be intimidating for students to ask their questions in front of the whole class so working in small groups, even if it's only for 10 minutes, could be helpful. Another way to improve is dedicating more time to go over some problems that students have encountered while working on them individually. 
  
## What helps me the most in class are (WODs, Labs, class website, screencasts, readings, quizzes, one on one help, working with classmates, etc.):

  What helps me the most in class are the WODs, screencasts, and working with classmates. The WODs challenge me to understand the concepts that we go over in class since I have to go through all the steps and explain them. They have also taught me how to search for errors if I ever come across any and improved my problem-solving skills. I also think the screencasts are helpful since they allow me to pause, rewind, and go over everything at my own pace. Working with classmates has also helped me complete the labs and helping them with their problems has made me realize that I have learned more than I thought I did.

