---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E5: Reflecting on Assignment 2"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2024-04-25
published: true
labels:
  - MIS
  - E5
---
1. Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a link to this page for further details

   Assignment 2 involves updating Assignment 1 and personalizing the website for each user by adding a login page and registration page. This allows only registered   users to purchase products from the website and receive a personalized invoice that displays their name.

   Click to learn more about <a href="https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/150.Assignment2/experience-Assignment2.html">Assignment 2</a>.
   
3. What did you learn from this assignment?

   I learned how to use File I/O for user registration and persistence (saving user registration data in a file and allowing users to log in after the server has been restarted). I also learned how to pass data through a query string to be accessed on multiple HTML pages. 
   
5. Did you work with a partner? Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself).

   I did not work with a partner on this assignment. The estimated percentage I contributed to the assignment is 100%.
   
7. How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with?

    When I ran into problems, I used chatGPT and asked the TAs and my classmates for help. I needed help reducing the quantities when the invoice was generated instead of when the user clicks the purchase button. I used chatGPT to help me figure out how to use another array to temporarily store the user quantities until the user logs in or registers. I also needed help writing a few of the validations for the registration page and making the email and name text fields sticky.
   
9. How was developing this assignment different than assignment #1?

    Developing this assignment was different than Assignment 1 because Assignment 1 focused more on the aesthetics and implementing CSS while Assignment 2 was a lot more complex and required a lot of File I/O. Additionally, Assignment 2 was simply building off Assignment 1 and linking the pages differently. 
    
11. Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging

    I spent about 50% of the time thinking about how to do something, 20% of the time writing code, and 30% of the time testing and debugging. 
    
13. Describe what worked well with this project? What did not work well?

    One thing that worked well with this project was watching the screencast about getting started on Assignment 2 and following along so that I understood how server.js interacts with the login, registration, invoice, and user data. Something that did not work well was sending large portions of my code to chatGPT to look for solutions.

14. If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently?

    If I could go back in time and do things differently, I would look at the tasks more generally and understand how to solve them with the programming I already know how to do before asking chatGPT. I would also output my errors to the console to see what I needed to fix before deleting my code and trying something new. 
