---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E7: Reflective Analysis of my ITM 352 Experience"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2024-05-03
published: true
labels:
  - MIS
  - E7
    
---
E7: Reflective Analysis of my ITM 352 Experience

# 1. Course Goals ITM 352 has the following goals:
### 1.1 Acquiring basic programming skills in an IT context
I feel like I acquired basic programming skills in an IT context from the WODs and labs. This helped me understand basic programming using JavaScript, and the basic concepts of programming including functions, conditional expressions, and looping.

### 1.2 Understanding why MIS people need basic programming skills and knowledge
I felt like I understood why MIS people need basic programming skills and knowledge when doing the labs. Knowing basic programming helps MIS professionals maintain and troubleshoot software systems more efficiently and allows them to identify and fix common issues, debug code, or update systems.

### 1.3 Gaining hands-on experience in developing software applications
Assignment 1 was when I felt I was getting hands-on experience in developing software applications. In particular, I learned how to display product information on a webpage, display errors, and create a corresponding invoice page. I think the most difficult part of the assignment was my IR and getting the error message to appear as the user types in information in the textbox. This required me to think about what kind of function to use, which page to write it (i.e. server.js, store.html, etc.), and where on the page to call it. 

### 1.4 Experiencing first-hand MIS problems and solutions
I experienced first-hand MIS problems and solutions throughout the entire course with the WODs, labs, and assignments. The first time I encountered problems was when working on the first WOD. This challenged me to use my resources and figure out how to do the task without being told what code to use. I remember doing multiple takes on the first WOD so that the video went smoothly but as I did more, I found that sometimes it was more efficient for me to leave in all my mistakes in the final cut and show myself going through my code to find the source of the problem. 

### 1.5 Experiencing and understanding first-hand project management, working in teams, software development issues
I experienced and understood first-hand project management, working in teams, and software development issues when working on Assignments 1 and 2. I spent time with some of my classmates explaining how to fix their code and implement CSS in their e-store web applications.

### 1.6 Gaining confidence in addressing MIS problems
I feel like I gained confidence in addressing MIS problems once I started working on the Assignments. At this point in the semester, I feel like most of the problems I encountered when working on the assignments I had already seen earlier when working on the labs so I was able to troubleshoot.


# 2. Course Elements and Personal Engagement
### 2.1 What did you learn from creating a professional portfolio and using it in ITM 352?
I learned how to publicly share projects with web application technologies and frameworks such as JSON, YAML notation, and GitHub. While I think it is nice to have a place to show off the projects I have completed in this class, I don’t really find myself updating it much in the future.

### 2.2 What did you gain from doing the WODs?
I gained experience in basic software development practice and how to write code to solve development solutions most efficiently. Timing myself and recording the whole process forced me to learn the steps and got me into the habit of commenting out my code.

### 2.3 Were the quizzes helpful in preparing you for the labs?
I feel like the quizzes were not that helpful in preparing for the labs since we went over what was in the readings and screencasts again in class so it felt kind of repetitive. I kept having to go back to the readings to answer them and ended up retaking them multiple times so I don't think I got much out of them.

### 2.4 What did you learn from doing the labs?
I learned how to apply what we learned in the labs to Assignments 1 and 2. For example, the File I/O lab helped me create the login and registration page for Assignment 1 and have it output the user data information on subsequent pages. 

### 2.5 What did you learn from doing the essays?
I learned how to reflect on my progress and see if I understood how to explain the concepts we learned in class. However, I don’t feel like they were very beneficial, and would rather spend time reviewing the concepts and working on assignments than writing about them. 

### 2.6 What did you learn from doing Assignment 1 and Assignment 2?
I learned how to use HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to create a web application and how to incorporate security and personalization into it using file I/O. I also learned how user data is passed through the server and displayed on different web pages. 

# 3. Challenges and Achievements
### 3.1 Detail the specific challenges you encountered during the course, such as understanding new programming concepts, completing WODs, web application development assignments.
Specific challenges I encountered during the course were understanding conditional expressions and operating, and completing Assignment 2, in particular, getting the quantities to decrease when the invoice is generated and making the text fields sticky on the login and registration page.

### 3.2 Explain how you overcame these challenges and the strategies that helped you succeed.
I overcame these challenges by using ChatGPT, working with my classmates, and asking the TAs for help. I found asking the TAs was the best resource when it came to the Assignments but ChatGPT was just as helpful with the labs. 

### 3.3 Highlight any particular achievements or milestones in the course that were significant to you.
A particular achievement in the course was getting my Assignment 2 to work, particularly, getting my quantities to reduce in the correct place and being able to save user registration data. 

# 4. Skill Development and Application
### 4.1 Reflect on the three skill levels outlined in the course (syntactic, algorithmic, application) and discuss your progression through these levels.
Syntactic: I struggled a lot in the beginning. I had trouble grasping the basic concepts and spent a lot of time watching the screencasts and doing the W3 readings to help me complete the labs at home. I had trouble learning the syntax for JavaScript and would often make small errors.  
Algorithmic: I think doing the WODs helped me problem-solve and find the easiest and most efficient way to solve an issue. I also got more comfortable using ChatGPT to help me write some code. 
Application: I felt more confident in my programming abilities and was able to apply what I learned in the course to a real web application

### 4.2 Describe how the hands-on experience with web-based e-service applications enhanced your understanding and confidence in handling MIS issues.
The hands-on experience with web-based e-service applications helped me understand issues with deploying a website on a global server, making user data secure, and testing validations to make sure that the correct data was saved and processed. 

# 5. Use of AI (e.g. ChatGBT)
### 5.1 Discuss how use of AI enhanced your learning and productivity. Give specific examples of how you used AI effectively.
AI enhanced my learning and productivity by helping me understand certain concepts that I didn’t understand (how cookies/sessions work, file I/O, etc.) and answer questions in the labs. It also helped me identify errors in my code and how to correct them. An example of how I used AI effectively was when I sent ChatGPT an error I received when starting my server and it returned the part of my code that I needed to fix.

### 5.2 Discuss how use of AI inhibited your learning or and productivity. Give specific examples of how you used AI ineffectively.
AI inhibited my learning and productivity by making me dependent on it for certain tasks. When working on the labs that asked for more general solutions, ChatGPT was able to help me write the exact code I needed. However, when it came to work on Assignment 1 and 2, using ChatGPT was not as helpful since the problems were more complex and I had to understand the issue to ask the right questions. An example was when I asked ChatGPT to make the text fields in my login.html sticky. This was not effective because ChatGPT didn’t have the data from my server so it didn’t work.

# 6. Future Implications and Professional Growth
### 6.1 Explore how the skills and knowledge gained from ITM 352 can be applied in your future academic and professional endeavors.
Since I plan to go into the accounting field, I can use the troubleshooting skills I have gained to diagnose and resolve issues that may arise while using accounting software. In general, I think understanding how web applications work, having a basic understanding of at least one programming language, and being able to use AI to help solve problems, are useful skills to have as technology is constantly growing and changing the workplace. 

### 6.2 Discuss the potential impacts these skills will have on your career, especially in terms of understanding and addressing MIS problems.
As an accounting major, proficiency in ITM 352 skills can set me apart from other accounting students. Employers increasingly value candidates who possess a combination of accounting expertise and technological knowledge. This can lead to career advancement opportunities, such as roles in financial analysis, internal audit, or IT consulting, where the ability to leverage technology to solve business challenges is valued.

### 6.3 Reflect on the overall value of the course in your educational journey and future career.
This course has helped me develop a problem-solving mindset and critical thinking abilities. Additionally, since programming languages have strict syntax rules that must be followed precisely, learning how to code has made me more detail-oriented which is a necessary skill in the accounting field. 
